We introduce the concept of FAIR theories, reimagining theories as dynamic, evolving entities collaboratively developed and refined, thus contributing to a more robust and interconnected body of scientific knowledge. 
Theories help to structure and condense the existing scientific knowledge, yet their development often lacks structure. 
To lay open what theorizing and empirical data are needed for a research area to progress, we provide FAIR theories as a framework to make transparent how theories evolve in relation to their history, empirical data, and other theories. 
Central to FAIR theories is representing theories as digital objects, expressed in various formal languages, including formulas, mathematical/statistical models, computer programs, nomological networks, or operational definitions. 
However, digital representation is not enough; in our framework, the theory's history is tracked using version control, changes in empirical content with semantic versioning, and the relation between theories with universally unique identifiers. 
Combining these identifiers with rich metadata makes a FAIR theory Findable; version control systems tracking it and the metadata make it Accessible; the formal languages make it Interoperable; and well-defined procedures for changing and amending theories make it Reusable. 
FAIR theories facilitate metascientific insights into the evolution of theories and their empirical underpinnings.
As a next step, we envision theories with "integration tests against reality", i.e., akin to continuous integration in software development, where the empirical foundations of theories are continuously evaluated, paralleling living meta-analyses.
This presentation addresses the guiding principles of FAIR theory and provides specific implementation examples.
