# Versioned Theories next Steps

1. Should we aim for "Theory Specification and Theory Building in Psychology" for the Zeitschrift für Psychologie.
    *  deadline for abstracts is April 2024, full paper by November 2014
2. Do we all agree on the scope?
    * https://github.com/cjvanlissa/theory_specification/blob/main/outline.md
    * Most contentios issue for AP is: should we propose a specific format, or just the properties of such format/methodology?
3. Define roles: Who is doing what?
4. Should we plan a hackathon (i.e. couple of hours of coworking) to draft an outline of the paper?
5. DGPS Symposium
6. How is Felix's seminar going?


# Caspar

Lecture at Borsbooms group and at Social Data Science Unit both showed real insterest.

## Andreas

* Git: Theories can branch, but branches can even merge again
* Allows us to track the evolution of theories
* Two prototypes:
    * One main branch that constantly evolves
    * Many branches / thousand flowers (is there an analogy example in software development?)
* Dis/advantages of both prototypes
* Discuss pro's and con's of decisions that we have different perspectives on
* "Import" elements of existing theories to your own theory.
* Turtles all the way down: "Hey bro, I heard you like theories, so we put a theory inside your theory"


## Political vs technical dimension

Political / Social Aspects:
- Who is the maintainer of a theory? Who is allowed to make changes/ forks
- How to handle authorship/contributorship?
    - Have a bold vision of how to rethink contributorship
- New contributor roles?
- Link to licensing/user agreements - Who is the "owner" of an idea?
- Reuse/citing
- Where does peer review come into play?
- How does (semantic) versioning work when multiple forks exist?

Tech:
- Tutorial style; examples of implementations

Caspar sees the value of the political side but really wants to focus on the technical side.

## Felix

* Upcoming President of German Psychological Society anounced that theory formation will be an important topic
* Symposium at conference in Germany
* Rearrange / rethink contributorship
* Seminar: 7 students
    + Visual Argument Structuring Tool (similar to SEM)
    + ABM Netlogo
    + Imaginary Intergroup Contact hypothesis (social psych)
* Versioning theories: 
    + Where do you put the version number?
    + When do you increment
    + Compatible with multiple parallel versions?
    + semver as  vehicle to communicate the intention of the authors ("this is a minor change, this is a breaking change")
* Describe current way of theory development in terms of our proposed workflow

## Next steps

Journals: AMPPS, Meta-Psychology, PoPS
